If you were trapped in a house hunted
down by a blind special forces soldier,
and you can't make a sound, what would
you do? The characters in this movie,
thought robbing a blind man would be an easy
job, only for it to turn into a trap that
takes a surprising turn towards the end.
I'm going to break down the mistakes made,
what you should do, and explain how to
beat the blind soldier in "Don't Breathe."
Rocky's a small-time burglar, who's trying to make
as much money as she can to leave Detroit and head
to California with her sister. She finds out from
her partner there's a house in skid Row where a
veteran lives alone. And a whole lot of cash is
sitting around inside. She doesn't have a clue
that this will be the last robbery of her life.
The burglars scatter the veterans neighborhood
and spot him outside of walking his dog. And they
notice he has a cane. This man is blind as a bat.
The job appears to have gotten a whole lot
easier. But if they took it more seriously,
they would have seen a few red flags.
They noticed the cane, but not that he
was extremely fit for his age. That means he's
exercising and active. This guy's a war veteran,
with a killer instinct and a body to
match. He probably even sleeps with a gun,
and his Rottweiler already has it in for
you. So maybe not as easy as they all think.
Later that night, the team begins their
robbery. They slip the guard dog some sedatives,
but find that the front door has several locks
they can't open.- Wait, this doesn't make sense.
They have the key for the man's home security
company. Why would he have extra locks? So far
they've been smart about this. Thorough research,
24 hour recording of neighborhood activity,
but this is a bad start. Four locks is a sign
that he's not going to make things easy for you,
especially since he's a military man. I would
bring brass knuckles or other self-defense
weapons, so that we have a better chance in
a confrontation. Nothing they try works. The
side door to the house is locked-shut, and so is
the cellar door. But Rocky spots a window above
them, and clambers up the side. She breaks in
through the bathroom window and sneaks as fast
as she can then shut off the burglar alarm before
it goes off. This girl knows what she's doing.
The problem is he's blind, not deaf. Cracking
glass with a rock is noisy, and stomping around
in boots is going to wake him up. The blind
develop enhanced hearing and the ability to track
movement. Also, the statistical majority of U.S.
soldiers experienced terrible insomnia, and he
just lost his daughter. He would definitely be a
light sleeper. Considering who they're up against,
being silent here could save you. For this, they
could have used duct tape. It pads the sound and
keeps most of the glass shards intact. And while
taking your shoes off is smart, it's another loose
end. With everyone inside, they begin searching
the house for the cash. One of the guys enters the
veteran's bedroom where he's about to fill it with
sleeping gas. But the soldier suddenly gets up.
It's time to acknowledge that this man is crazy
alert. Just puncturing a plastic bottle wakes
him up. If that doesn't change your strategy, then
you might as well write your will and testament.
But it's a lot of money. And if you've come
this far, I wouldn't call it quits just yet.
What you should do now is lock him in. This could
be done by tying the knob to a heavy piece of
furniture or using a specialized security bar to
force it shut. None of them have found any money,
but they do find this door with some crazy locks
on it. They try forcing it to open with a pry bar,
and when that doesn't work, one of the burglars
pulls out a gun and shoots the lock off.
Alex here begins to realize this
can only end badly for them. So far,
they broke into his house, damaged his property,
and brought a gun into the home of a veteran,
with superior skill and knowledge and firearms.
The castle law dictates this guy could defend
his home. And if you think shooting into a
plastic bottle is going to keep it quiet,
you're dead wrong. The best homemade silencer
would be a modified oil filter. It might be bulky,
but it's gonna do the job. Alex decides enough is
enough and leaves. And he's the only one thinking
straight because things are about to go
terribly wrong. As a blind man suddenly
appears behind them. And they're definitely
underestimating how much this Gulf war vet can do.
The burglar tells him he just stumbled and
drunk. But the vet steps on the broken bolt lock
and knows exactly what it is. He threatens him
with his gun, shooting a warning shot, which
alerts Alex outside. He moves in, grabs the gun
and disarms it. It's officially time to freak out.
They're completely outmatched. He slammed the gun
to his neck, asking one simple question, who else
is with you? In this moment, we need to take stock
of some important facts. You won't overpower him,
you can't sneak up on him, you can't find
the money and there is no way to save your
friend. If you're the first to bolt? You might get
away. Heartless. I know, but that's the life of a
criminal. He will definitely shoot if he hears you
running. So, I'd throw something as a diversion
stay low to the ground and spring for the door. If
I'm still alive, I can make new friends and never
mentioned this to anyone. Instead, they all panic
and solidarity. The burglar tells him that he came
alone and gets promptly shot. Horrified, Rocky
hides herself in a closet. As Alex comes back in
and finds the blind guy is locking things down.
Literally locking the door-shut, and boarding-up
the broken window. This is terrifying, but he has
a shot here. The gun is near the sink within arm's
reach. I would grab it and shoot him dead, wipe
the prints and place it in the hands of my dead
friend. That's at least what I like to do but
I'm way too much of a coward for that. Let's
just close our eyes and hope this all goes away.
From the closet Rocky sees the veteran open a
safe and input the pin code. A simple four
digit combo. That's going to pay off big.
Alex finds her, and together they discover that
inside the safe are bundles of cash. Now they
got what they came for, but how are they going to
leave? Remembering that there is a storm cellar
outside, they head for the door only, to find
the veteran blocking their only escape plan.
He begins to drag the dead body out, but as they
slowly back away, he hears the floorboard creek.
Wood floors are impossible to beat. It's too late
for WD 40. The only option is to cover your mouth,
and stay breathless and motionless until he leaves
the room. That's what I would do. But the truth is
it might get me killed just as quickly. When your
heart is racing, it's using up your body's oxygen
reserves making it very difficult to hold
your breath for long. The right strategy is
to breathe through your mouth slowly as it's
less noisy, because it's a wider air passage.
The burglars phone goes off and he shoots at it.
It's a distraction that saves their life. And if
I'm seeing this, I'm losing all hope. His aim was
incredible for a blind man. It definitely makes
running for an exit, a bad strategy. He continues
carrying the body out of the room. Giving them the
chance to find a way out. But they're about
to find a horrifying surprise awaiting them
in the basement. They can barely see anything.
They're stumbling around with no exit in sight.
When out of nowhere, a woman leaps at them.
She's gagged, tied up and chained to a wall.
This just got way more intense.
Killing an armed burglar is one thing,
but this is insane. They now understand who
they're dealing with. A psycho-killer, who plays
by his own rules. And upstairs, he just figured
out, that these guys are still in the house.
I told you those shoes are a bad idea. Rocky goes
to rescue her, and realizes that she's the girl
who killed the blind man's daughter. This is his
revenge. She directs them to a safe, and lucky for
them. He used the same combo. Inside they find
keys and used them to free her. Not realizing
this kind of act, was their biggest mistake
of the night. Now it's good to help people,
but right now it's not smart. Escape gets a
lot harder with three people, let alone two.
And it's strange they never think to take off her
gag. She might have told us about the bell she's
rigged with. And from there, an ambush could be
planned by luring him down with it. As long as
we stay silent, we've a chance to knock him out
and lock him in. But let's not kid ourselves,
this is a gamble because if you have
to fight him, you've already lost.
The cellar door gets unlocked and the man starts
firing grazing Alex, shooting at Rocky. As she
breaks her phone and accidentally killing the
girl, they were trying to rescue. Taking cover,
they retreat into the basement. The man cautiously
steps down and slips in blood, realizing the woman
is dead and begins crying. This is not what you'd
expect If she killed his daughter, there might be
more to this than it seems. They watched from the
shadows as the blind man locks the door and breaks
the Key in the hole. Guaranteeing no scape. The
burglar's only plan left is to make a break for
the other room and get to the front door. But
suddenly, all the lights in the basement go off.
It's pitch-black and they have to reach out
to find their way around, while the veteran is
literally sprinting through the dark corridors.
It's the perfect death trap for a blind man. He
starts firing at them and taking cover. The two
split up as they try to navigate the basement.
Rocky moves along the shelf, and has no idea
that she's about to bump into the veteran. She's
practically breathing on them and is only saved
by Alex's calls, luring the blind man towards him.
The veteran somehow finds out and grabs him,
shoving a gun against his head. But realizing the
gun is empty, he starts strangling him. Luckily
he's able to knock a shelf onto the veteran
before running away to get the girl. we've lost
our single advantage over him. Sight. How do we
escape? You can start by confirming where he is.
Draw him in for noise in height, on a lower shelf,
to hear him walk by. Effectively mapping part
of the room for you, to run in the opposite
direction. He has the whole place memorized but he
will follow what he hears. Once he's distracted,
make your way towards the light quickly. They
scrambled to get out of the basement in gen the
door's shut. but find themselves staring down
a massive Rottweiler. Rocky goes to unlock the
front door while Alex tries his best to keep the
dog calm. He knew these exceeds, until the veteran
tries to break down the basement door, setting the
dog into attack mode, and forcing them upstairs.
They barricade themselves in one of the bedrooms
and try to escape through the windows. But they're
barred. It's a bad situation that only gets worse.
As the veteran start to break in through the door.
Alex suggests pressing the panic button on
his remote, making the point that the cops
will overlook their robbery, when they discovered
that this man is a murdering psychopath. And he's
right, this lets them live, but not keep the cash,
something Rocky isn't willing to do. The vet is
still pushing through and they're running out of
time. But they suddenly spot an air vent above,
that's big enough for one of them to slip
through. Rocky squeezes into the crawl space,
just as the dog Rams Alex, knocking him out of
the window and on the skylight below. As if that
wasn't enough, the psycho-dog then climbs its way
into the shaft and makes its way towards Rocky,
to finish the job. With no other option, she
throws herself down the shaft head-first slamming
into the ground. Alex is dangerously suspended
on the skylight. He tries moving slowly as the
glass cracks under him, but looks up only to see
the blind man shoot the glass, holding him up,
sending him falling to the ground. Hurt from
the fall, he walks through the house, trying to
use his remote to activate the burglar alarm. Now
it's risky, but we now have an open path outside.
I might have tried going back up to the
skylight. We'd be wearing gloves so we
wouldn't get cut too badly and judging by
their height, It's possible to jump up to,
but it's too late because the blind man finds
them first and fires his revolver, forcing him
to hide in this laundry room right next to his
friend's corpse. The veteran tracks into the room,
but gets ambushed and disarmed, but he should
have gone straight for his head because he grabs
Alex who quickly gets overpowered and beats the
snot out of him. But the washing machines turn
on disorientating the man. Alex takes his chance
and reaches for the gun on the floor. Now, if I
was in this situation with my honed abilities,
as a coward, I would have run out of the door,
but kicks the gun out with me. Get out of the
closed space because it forces you to fight him.
And you won't win that. The veteran manages to
turn off the washing machines and stop Alex from
grabbing the gun. Rowing punch after punch, before
finishing the burglar off with garden sheers.
Recovering from her fall, Rocky struggles
to reach the end of the ventilation shaft
that leads straight out of the house. She's able
to turn herself around and kick out the grate,
but it's too late. She's ripped out of the
crawl space by the veteran and gets knocked out.
She wakes up, locked into the same harness as
the woman before her. The veteran very clearly
tells her, he won't let her go after what she's
done and intends to keep her as a replacement.
For what exactly? A baby maker. He was using
the woman, to make a new daughter for him
to replace the one she had killed. Rocky is
gonna stay with him for the next nine months.
It's almost impossible to escape from this, unless
you're prepared in advance. Handcuffs have a
universal one-fits all lock. If you're a criminal,
they'll likely come in handy. You can tuck it in
your waistband to access when you're cuffed. It's
looking hopeless for her. The blind man has one
and there's nothing she can do. But upstairs Alex
gets up from the floor. He's still alive. Because
the other burglar's body was stabbed instead
of his. Now he has his best chance to escape.
With some quick thinking, he's able to trick
and lock the dog inside the laundry room,
giving him time to unlock and open the front
door. He needs to leave. It's not about money
anymore. This is pure survival. If both of you are
caught, it won't help anyone. He's had the drop on
you at every turn. And without even being able to
see. Get out and get help. Back in the basement,
the veteran disposes of the girl's corpse and
hoists up Rocky to prepare her for what's to
come. Now, he's not going to force himself
on her. A whole no. It's way worse. He grabs
his bottle of frozen GU from a fridge, gets it
nice and warm and fills a turkey baster with it.
It's an absolutely horrifying moment for Rocky
who tries to rip her way out of the harness.
but there's no escape. This is going to happen.
Just as she's given up all hope. Blood splatters
on her face and the blind man gets knocked away
by Alex. He came back to set her free taking the
cuffs off and placing them on him. She swears that
she'll get the veteran arrested but Alex points
out that it would end badly. They've broken into
his house, stolen his money and assaulted him.
It would be child's play for the guy to turn
the cops against them. They have to let him go
If they want to get away. It appears to be over,
but just as they make it back upstairs and open
the front door, Alex gets killed by the blind man.
Leaving Rocky, the sole survivor who makes it out
of the house. It seems like she's safe, but then
his dog comes bolting out of the house. You can't
out run a Rottweiler. It's not going to happen.
If you're being chased by a dog standing still
and slowly walking away, will usually work in this
situation, but this dog might be related to Cujo.
So I can't blame her for running. But she might've
had a better chance to run around the back of the
house where there's more cover, and more obstacles
to put as much between yourself and this crazy
canine as you can. It chases her all the way
back to her car. It snags ahold of the money bag,
leaving her stuck inside and to make matters
worse. She dropped the money outside the car,
the keys are nowhere to be found she's trapped.
But she comes up with an ingenious plan that would
have made MacGyver proud. She opens up the trunk
to lure the dog inside and then yanks on the rope
she attached to trap him in, while at the same
time pushing the passenger seats back into place.
Effectively caging the dog, at least for
a moment it before rips its way out, man,
this dog has no chill. It gets so close that it's
almost able to bite her and this gives her the
chance to hook the release latch onto the dog's
callus, pulling it back, and giving her the space
to get out and grab the bag. Now, if only she was
a bit more careful, she would have gotten away.
Dragged back to the house and dropped by, next to
Alex's corpse. It's utterly hopeless. but maybe
she's got one last trick up her sleeve. She grabs
Alex's remote and activates the panic button.
Alarms are blaring throughout the house and
overwhelm the veteran. Rocky picks up a pry
bar and blitzes the blind man. Hitting him as she
cleverly takes advantage of his confusion. But
just as she's about to land, one more blow, the
alarm shuts off. The veteran hears the floorboard
Creek behind him, and he turns, but he's too slow
on the draw. It gets sent flying. Knocked into the
basement floor, where his gun goes off, shooting a
leaky hole into himself during the fall, she takes
a breath as if for the first time, all night.
With the money in hand and the veteran dead,
Rocky leaves the house, just in time before the
police arrive. Later, as she and her sister are
waiting at a train station, she sees a news report
about the robbery. There's no mention of her or
any money being stolen, but the veteran is still
alive recovering in the hospital. He hasn't told
anyone about what really happened. But who knows
what he'll do once he's finally out. But what do
you think? How would you beat the blind soldier?
Let me know, with a comment down below. Thank you
so much for watching, leave a like and subscribe.
And until next time have a damn good day.